Instructor: Now that you know
how to create your own backdoor
and use it to hack a computer
and remotely control it,
in this lecture, let's talk about
how to get this backdoor to bypass antivirus
and security programs.
So first of all, in order to do that,
we have to understand how these antivirus programs work.
And there are two main principles
that these antivirus programs work on.
The first one is known as static analysis,
and as the name suggests in this approach,
the antivirus program compares the code of the executable
or the backdoor to a database of known malware.
So for example,
let's say you have your executable backdoor in here
and you send it to a target computer
and they download it,
and that computer has an antivirus program.
The program is gonna go ahead
and compare the code in this executable
to a database of known malware and known threats.
And if it manages to find code in this database
of known threats that looks similar to the code
that is inside your executable,
then it's gonna know that this executable is harmful.
Otherwise, it'll not detect this executable.
Therefore, since this technique is static,
and it only depends on the code
that exists in the actual program,
we can bypass this technique
by simply making the program more unique
so that the code used in our program
does not match any code
that exists in this database of known malware.
And you can do this either manually
if you know programming.
You can write your own backdoor
or modify the existing code of the backdoor,
or you can use ready tools such as packers,
encoders, or obfuscators.
All of these tools basically modify the code of the program
so that hopefully the resulting code is unique enough
to not match anything
that exists in this database of known malware.
So this first approach is actually easy enough to bypass,
but it gets trickier when antivirus programs get smarter
and employ a technique that is known as dynamic
or heuristic analysis.
This technique analyzes the behavior
of the executable or the backdoor
and decides whether it is harmful or not based on that.
So instead of simply comparing its code
to a database of known malware, in this example,
let's say you have your backdoor in here
and it gets downloaded on a target computer.
The antivirus program in this target computer
will execute your backdoor in a sandbox
or in a controlled environment
so that it can't actually exit this sandbox.
And then it analyzes the behavior of this executable.
If this executable is trying to connect to another computer,
as we saw earlier, that means it's a backdoor,
or if it's trying to modify registry entries,
or if it is encrypting certain paths in the computer,
then we know that this is a ransomware.
So based on the behavior of the executable,
the antivirus program is gonna decide
whether this executable is harmful or not.
So in this case, simply making the code
more unique is not enough
because even if you have unique code
that is doing suspicious stuff on the computer,
the antivirus program is gonna flag it
as a virus or as malware.
Therefore, in order to bypass this technique,
we're gonna have to make the program
seem like it is not harmful.
And to do that,
you're gonna have to be a little bit creative.
For example, you can add benign or safe operations.
So you can make your malware
or backdoor seem like it's a legit application.
So for example, just to keep it simple,
you can have code for a calculator program in there
and at the same time have your backdoor executed
at a certain stage.
You can also delay the payload execution.
So there are a number of ways of doing this.
For example, you can detect
whether this backdoor is being executed in a sandbox
or a virtual environment.
And if it is, then don't execute the payload,
only show the calculator code, for example.
You can also simply wait for the user to do something,
so you can wait for a certain amount of time,
or you can wait for the user to run a certain application
or do a certain action and only then execute the payload.
We can also get a bit creative
with how we communicate with the backdoor.
So instead of making a direct or a reverse connection,
we can actually facilitate the communication between us
and the target through programs
that are known to be safe.
So we can facilitate the communication
through known platforms like GitHub, Telegram, and Discord.
And I actually cover all of that in my course
that shows how to use the cloud for hacking.
Now as you can see,
bypassing antivirus programs is a really big topic
and it can take up so much of this course.
But this is a basic course that is designed
to cover the basics of hacking.
So if you want to learn more about this,
as you can see there are two main approaches.
Either you're gonna rely on tools such as packers, encoders,
obfuscators, or even the tools that I mentioned
that will facilitate the connection
using unconventional methods like Discord and Signal.
All of that is covered in my social engineering course
and hacking using the cloud course.
The other approach would be
to manually implement these techniques,
so manually make the program more unique
and manually add more operations
and make the program seem safe.
And you can do that manually if you know programming,
and I covered that in my Python course,
in the course that I teach Python
and ethical hacking from scratch.
All of these courses along with more information about them
and special discounts for you guys are all included
in the last lecture of the course, the bonus lecture.
So check it out if you're interested
in learning more about this.
And I'm also gonna include some links
and videos in the resources of this lecture
just to show you these methods in action
and how useful they can be to bypass antivirus programs.